---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Python Quiz, Functions, & Flow Control"
author: "Shawn Schwartz"
---

## Not Happy with Quiz Grade?
 - If you are unsatisfied with your quiz score, you can retake the quiz at home within a Jupyter Notebook.
 - You must answer every question in the quiz **and** use markdown within your Jupyter Notebook, along with comments in your code, to say what the question is and describe how you solved it. **Each question should be in a new cell within the Jupyter Notebook. Unorganized or hard to follow notebooks will not be considered for any form of credit.**
 - For each of the original questions on the quiz, after providing the **original question in markdown** AND **correct solution code in Python and in the output**, you must create a cell directly below the cell that contains the answer to the original question that directly manipulates some aspect of the question, therefore showing that you have a strong understanding of what the code does and that you can reproduce it (when something is varied). _For example, if the question asked you to find even numbers, then you could vary it by finding the odds in the cell below. Or, if the question wanted you to use a defaultdict with an integer datatype (for counting), make a defaultdict that stores a different data type and that performs some other action of your choice._ Then, explain how you varied it using comments or markdown. The creativity of your varied responses are up to you.

## Due Wednesday, February 19 by 5pm
 - No late submissions will be accepted and no extensions will be granted.
 - All instructions must be followed to receive credit. Any **missing, incorrect, or incomplete** solutions will void you from receiving full credit.
 - **You have the opportunity to receive the full 100% for this quiz grade if _all instructions are followed properly_ AND _all solutions are correct_.** If your code output is incorrect, there will be no partial credit and you will not be able to receive the full 100%.
 - You must complete all original questions from the quiz, along with the extra credit question, to be considered for the full 100% -- earning 110% is not possible for this retake, even by completing the extra credit question (which is necessary to receive the full 100%).
 - Utilize the course discussion forum, your peers, and office hours next week to complete this (optional) assignment if you were unsatisfied with your quiz grade.
 - All questions are solvable considering that we have discussed them now in lecture and that you can work through them in your Jupyter Notebook to test and debug your solution before finalizing it.
 - **Please email your `.ipynb` file to me before `5pm on Wednesday, February 19, 2020` if you decide to complete this assignment.**

- [Week 6 Python Quiz PDF]({{ site.url }}assets/hw-files/week6-python-quiz.pdf)