---
layout: post
title: "Week 8: LaTeX & Regex in Python"
author: "Shawn Schwartz"
---

## Before Lab on Monday (2/24)
 - Please download LaTeX onto your home computer (not your virtual machine).
 - LaTeX can be downloaded from [this link](https://www.latex-project.org/get/).
 - First, read [this page](https://www.latex-project.org/about/) to learn about what **LaTeX** (pronounced <<Lah-tech>> or <<Lay-tech>>) is.
 - You will need to download the proper **TeX** distribution. When you visit the link above, scroll down a bit -- you will see a header that says **TeX Distributions**. If you are on Mac OS, download the `MacTeX` distribution. If you are on Windows, you can download the `MiKTeX` distribution. Click the appropriate links on the page to see instructions to download. If you have trouble with downloading and getting the appropriate distribution, please post on the course forum on GitHub for help. **Note: You can also make a free account on [Overleaf](https://www.overleaf.com/) which is an online rendering platform to write LaTeX documents.** Resort to Overleaf if you _absolutely_ cannot get LaTeX installed on your computer.
 - Once LaTeX is installed, open the editor on your computer so you can mess around with it. If you are on Mac OS, you should open the program `TeXShop`. This will open up a text editor that LaTeX code can be written in. Using the sample script below, paste the script into the `TeXShop` editor and try to `Typeset` (upper left-hand corner) the document. For Windows users, `MikTex` should install a program called `TeXworks`. Open `TeXworks` and paste the script into the editor. To render the document, there should be a "play-looking" button in the top-left corner that will render the document. If it renders properly, a PDF document that is formatted should appear. If not, something is not properly configured (we can figure it out in lab week 8). If you cannot get it working, make a free Overleaf account and copy and paste the script into a blank Overleaf document and try to render it there. I want to make sure that you can at least see how the code translates to an output PDF file before we talk about it in more detail in lab on Monday (2/24).
 - Also, please read **Chapter 7** of the Allesina and Wilmes textbook to learn more about **Scientific Typesetting** before coming into lab on Monday.

 ```LaTeX
\documentclass[12pt]{article}
\usepackage{lingmacros}
\usepackage{tree-dvips}
\begin{document}

\section*{Notes for My Paper}

Don't forget to include examples of topicalization.
They look like this:

{\small
\enumsentence{Topicalization from sentential subject:\\ 
\shortex{7}{a John$_i$ [a & kltukl & [el & 
  {\bf l-}oltoir & er & ngii$_i$ & a Mary]]}
{ & {\bf R-}clear & {\sc comp} & 
  {\bf IR}.{\sc 3s}-love   & P & him & }
{John, (it's) clear that Mary loves (him).}}
}

\subsection*{How to handle topicalization}

I'll just assume a tree structure like (\ex{1}).

{\small
\enumsentence{Structure of A$'$ Projections:\\ [2ex]
\begin{tabular}[t]{cccc}
    & \node{i}{CP}\\ [2ex]
    \node{ii}{Spec} &   &\node{iii}{C$'$}\\ [2ex]
        &\node{iv}{C} & & \node{v}{SAgrP}
\end{tabular}
\nodeconnect{i}{ii}
\nodeconnect{i}{iii}
\nodeconnect{iii}{iv}
\nodeconnect{iii}{v}
}
}

\subsection*{Mood}

Mood changes when there is a topic, as well as when
there is WH-movement.  \emph{Irrealis} is the mood when
there is a non-subject topic or WH-phrase in Comp.
\emph{Realis} is the mood when there is a subject topic
or WH-phrase.

\end{document}
```