---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Plotting, Loops, Lists, & Conditionals in Python"
author: "Shawn Schwartz"
---

## Homework

**Due Sunday, February 9th by 11:59pm to GitHub in a Jupyter Notebook file in your `lab-exercises/week-five` directory.**

## Part 1 (Figures)
1. Create a plot showing the standard deviation (`numpy.std`) of the inflammation data for each day across all patients.
2. Modify the program to display the three plots on top of one another instead of side by side.

## Part 2 (Loops)
1. Explain what a `for` loop does.

---

Python has a built-in function called `range` that generates a sequence of numbers. `range` can accept 1, 2, or 3 parameters.

 - If one parameter is given, `range` generates a sequence of that length, starting at zero and incrementing by 1. For example, `range(3)` produces the numbers `0, 1, 2`.
 - If two parameters are given, `range` starts at the first and ends just before the second, incrementing by one. For example, `range(2, 5)` produces `2, 3, 4`.
 - If `range` is given 3 parameters, it starts at the first one, ends just before the second one, and increments by the third one. For example, `range(3, 10, 2)` produces `3, 5, 7, 9`.

---
2. Using `range`, write a loop that uses `range` to print the first 3 natural numbers:
```Ipython
1
2
3
```

3. Given the following loop:
```Ipython
word = 'oxygen'
for char in word:
    print(char)
```
How many times is the body of the loop executed?

4. Write a loop that calculates the same result at `4 ** 6` **(i.e., 4096)** using multiplication (and without exponentiation).

5. Knowing that two strings can be concatenated using the `+` operator, write a loop that takes a string and produces a new string with the characters in reverse order, so 'Ucla' becomes 'alcU'.

6. The built-in function `enumerate` takes a sequence (e.g. a list) and generates a new sequence of the same length. Each element of the new sequence is a pair composed of the index (0, 1, 2,…) and the value from the original sequence:
```Ipython
for idx, val in enumerate(a_list):
    # Do something using idx and val
```
The code above loops through `a_list`, assigning the index to `idx` and the value to `val`.

Suppose you have encoded a polynomial as a list of coefficients in the following way: the first element is the constant term, the second element is the coefficient of the linear term, the third is the coefficient of the quadratic term, etc.

```Ipython
x = 5
coefs = [2, 4, 3]
y = coefs[0] * x**0 + coefs[1] * x**1 + coefs[2] * x**2
print(y)
```

Write a loop using `enumerate(coefs)` which computes the value `y` of any polynomial, given `x` and `coefs`.

## Part 3 (Lists)
1. Explain what a list is.
2. Explain how to create and index lists of simple values.
3. Explain how to change the values of individual elements.
4. Explain **two** ways to append values to an existing list.
5. Use a for-loop to convert the string “hello” into a list of letters:
```Ipython
["h", "e", "l", "l", "o"]
```
6. Use slicing to access only the last four characters of a string or entries of a list.
```Ipython
string_for_slicing = "Observation date: 02-Feb-2013"
list_for_slicing = [["fluorine", "F"],
                    ["chlorine", "Cl"],
                    ["bromine", "Br"],
                    ["iodine", "I"],
                    ["astatine", "At"]]
```
7. Would your solution work regardless of whether you knew beforehand the length of the string or list (e.g. if you wanted to apply the solution to a set of lists of different lengths)? If not, try to change your approach to make it more robust. **Hint: Remember that indices can be negative as well as positive.**
8. So far we’ve seen how to use slicing to take single blocks of successive entries from a sequence. But what if we want to take a subset of entries that aren’t next to each other in the sequence? You can achieve this by providing a third argument to the range within the brackets, called the step size. The example below shows how you can take every third entry in a list:
```Ipython
primes = [2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, 29, 31, 37]
subset = primes[0:12:3]
print("subset", subset)
```
Notice that the slice taken begins with the first entry in the range, followed by entries taken at equally-spaced intervals (the steps) thereafter. If you wanted to begin the subset with the third entry, you would need to specify that as the starting point of the sliced range:
```Ipython
primes = [2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, 29, 31, 37]
subset = primes[2:12:3]
print("subset", subset)
```
Use the step size argument to create a new string that contains only every other character in the string “In an octopus’s garden in the shade”
```Ipython
beatles = "In an octopus's garden in the shade"
```

## Part 4 (Conditionals)
1. Consider the code block below:
```Ipython
if 4 > 5:
    print('A')
elif 4 == 5:
    print('B')
elif 4 < 5:
    print('C')
```
What would be printed if you ran this code? Explain your answer.
2. Write a loop that counts the number of vowels in a character string. Test it on a few individual words and full sentences.
3. **(Challenge Question, Extra Credit)**: Write a loop that prints the following (must be exclusively done in Python code (not including the number signs...those are literal comments for the sake of typing up the shape in markdown)).
```Ipython
#
#      * 
#     * * 
#    * * * 
#   * * * * 
#  * * * * * 
```
